While now we come to the principal talk of the graduation, it's going to be delivered
by a member of the governing body, brother Stephen Lett, and the very interesting thing
he has selected is, we can learn much from Peter.
Dear Gilead students, let me ask you, who is your favorite Bible character?
While during Gilead, you've examined many Bible characters you've learned positive
and negative lessons from them.
And perhaps your favorite character changed, remain the same, or now you have several
favorite Bible characters.
But no matter who your favorite character is, during this talk, we're going to learn
some of the many lessons to be learned from the very interesting Bible character, Peter.
Now first, let's learn some things we can learn about Jehovah in Jesus from Peter.
One thing we definitely learn is that Jehovah in Jesus, allow for, in fact, apparently
relish different personalities among their servants.
Now to illustrate this, let's contrast the personality of Peter, with that of some of
the other apostles, open up to John chapter 20.
And here's a very interesting little scripture highlighting two different personalities.
John chapter 20, verse 3, then Peter and the other disciple who would be John, set out
for the tomb.
The two of them began running together, but the other disciple ran faster than Peter
and reached the tomb first.
Stooping forward, he saw the linen claws lying there, but he did not go in.
Then Simon Peter also came following him, and he went into the tomb.
And he saw the linen claws lying there.
So John looked inside Peter rushed inside.
Now here's another example.
When the mob came to arrest Jesus in Gethsemane, John 1810 says Peter drew his sword and cut
the right ear of the slave of the high priest off.
Now let's think about this.
Do you think that Peter was going for that right ear?
I mean, that would truly be impressive, wouldn't it?
To go for that right ear and precisely take it off.
But remember, Peter was not a swordsman.
He was a fisherman.
Obviously, he was going for the man's head, wasn't he?
But he missed and took the ear off.
But what an impetuous, you could say, personality he has there.
Here's one more example.
The resurrected Jesus is on the shore of the sea of Galilee.
And the disciples are in the boat.
And John says that Peter, it is the Lord.
Well upon hearing this, Peter put his garment on and plunged into the sea.
The other disciples came in the boat.
So notice, John spoke, Peter plunged.
Peter came swimming.
Very different personalities.
But as we said, Jehovah and Jesus relished these different personalities among their servants.
But now what's the lesson for us?
Well in imitation of Jehovah and Jesus, we're obligated to have love for the whole association
of our brothers, 1 Peter 2, 17.
And whole means 100%.
And that certainly includes those with very different personalities from ourself, ones
from different cultures and backgrounds, say, we're obligated to receive these ones
into our company, into our homes, into our hearts.
Now you've done a lot of this the last five months, you Gilea's students.
Well you want to keep doing this.
And of course all of us want to do this.
But now here's another thing we learn about Jehovah and Jesus from Peter.
Jehovah and Jesus are very forgiving.
Now let's think about Jesus words at Matthew 1033 in plain words.
And our publications have said probably plain Hebrew words it would have been.
Jesus said, whoever dissones me before men,
I will disson him before my father who was in the heavens.
But not once, not twice, three times.
Peter did it, didn't he?
But yet Jehovah and Jesus completely forgave him because he was truly repentant.
In fact, to somewhat counterbalance what Peter had done, Jesus allowed Peter to reaffirm
his love for Jesus three times.
Well what's the lesson for us?
We must imitate Jehovah and Jesus and being very forgiving.
In fact, Jehovah makes it clear that he will forgive us in direct proportion to how we forgive others.
If we don't forgive others, Jehovah won't forgive us.
Where does that leave us?
Doomed.
But let's say we do forgive.
But we're pretty tight.
We're pretty stingiest, kind of hard to squeeze a little forgiveness out of us.
Well, the indication is, Jehovah put that same ruler on us that we put on others.
On the other hand, if we're very generous in forgiving,
now Jehovah can be very generous in forgiving us.
So if someone hurts you deeply, has sinned against you.
Don't view this as a bad thing.
View this as a big opportunity.
You've got a big opportunity to get a lot of forgiveness from Jehovah.
So cash in on that opportunity.
But now in addition to what we can learn about Jehovah and Jesus from Peter,
there are many lessons positive and negative that we can learn from Peter himself.
So let's do that.
Now here's a negative lesson.
At times, Peter spoke too quickly.
He had what has been called hoof and mouth disease.
What is that?
Open mouth, insert foot.
And some of us have the same problem, don't we?
But here's an example.
In Matthew chapter 16, Jesus was explaining that he would have to go to Jerusalem,
suffer many things and be killed.
Well, quickly, Peter spoke up.
And he actually rebuked Jesus.
If you can imagine that, he'd be kind to yourself, Lord.
You will not have this happen to you at all.
Hoof and mouth disease, wasn't it?
Followed by, as you could expect, some correction, humiliation, get behind me, say 10.
But the indication is that even though Peter had this problem, he overcame it.
See, he overcame this several times.
He spoke too quickly.
But first Peter 3.10, he was able to write with freeness of speech.
We know, and he would have lived up to this, whoever would love life,
and see good days must guard his tongue.
So he learned.
It took time he learned, and just like we're all learning.
But now, what's the lesson for us?
Well, it summed up nicely here in Proverbs chapter 18.
Please go there.
Proverbs 18 verse 13.
When anyone replies to a matter before he hears the facts,
it is foolish and humiliating.
So none of us can perfectly bridle our tongues, but we do well to try to restrain our lips,
at least until we've heard the facts.
Now, here's another negative lesson.
At times, Peter was overconfident.
The most notorious example, Matthew chapter 26,
although all the others are stumbled in connection with you,
I will never be stumbled, even if I should have to die with you.
I will, by no means, disown you.
Well, that was overconfidence, wasn't it?
And that we know it was pride before the crash.
Well, what was his problem?
He was relying at this point on himself, rather than Jehovah, see?
But again, the indication is very strong that he overcame that weakness.
And later, he was able to write at first Peter 5.6,
humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God.
So don't rely on yourself.
Be humble under Jehovah's hand.
Now, what's the lesson for us?
Well, like we learned at our convention, the last talk on Saturday,
that true courage is not self-reliance.
See, true courage must be based on modest reliance on Jehovah.
When we lean ourselves or rely on ourselves,
it's like leaning, you could say, on a rubber crutch.
You ever lean on a rubber crutch?
You're going to fall, aren't you?
But Deuteronomy 32-4, Jehovah is the rock.
If you lean on a rock, see, now you have something.
So we learned that from Peter, don't rely on yourself,
rely always on Jehovah.
Now, here's one more negative lesson.
At times, Peter was ensnared by fear of man.
Or we could say in his most infamous example, fear of girl.
Interestingly, Matthew 26, Peter was sitting outside
and a servant girl came up and said to him,
you too were with Jesus the Galilean.
But he denied it.
I do not know what you're talking about.
He went out to the gatehouse, another girl noticed him.
This man was with Jesus.
Again, he denied it, even with an oath.
So his first two denials, you could say, fear of girl.
But it is obviously clear.
He truly overcame that weakness, that problem,
and he became an outspoken bold witness of Jehovah in Jesus.
I think, for example, in Acts chapter 5,
where here, Peter and the other apostles
were in front of the Sanhedrin.
The high priest said, we ordered you
to quit teaching about this Jesus.
Peter, we must obey God
as ruler than man.
And furthermore, this Jesus, God has raised him from the dead.
This one that you killed, wow.
No fear of man there, I was there.
He obviously overcame this problem.
Now, what's the lesson for us?
We want to do our utmost to never be ensnared
by fear of men, women, or girls.
And of course, always remembering
is Jehovah's rating of us that counts will help us.
The humans can't add five seconds to our life, can they?
Jehovah can add or subtract eternity.
But now, we're going to move to some positive lessons
we can learn from Peter.
And by far, his positive qualities outweigh
the negative qualities that he displayed at times.
Now, here's one.
Peter waited on Jehovah.
And a wonderful example of this in John chapter six.
Jesus had stated that unless you eat my flesh,
drink my blood, you will not have everlasting life.
And the Bible says that many of the disciples were shocked,
they were stumbled, they quit following Jesus.
And Jesus said to Peter, do you want to leave also Peter?
Do you remember those beautiful words
coming out of Peter's mouth, Lord, whom shall we go away to?
You have the sayings of everlasting life.
Now, if you think about it,
Peter didn't understand Jesus' words at this point
any more than the rest did.
But he was willing to wait on Jehovah
for further enlightenment.
And in time, he learned that those words have to be understood
figuratively, that we have to exercise faith
in Jesus' flesh and blood.
Well, what's the lesson for us?
Like Peter, we must show a waiting attitude
for the God of our salvation.
Micah chapter seven, verse seven.
Now, here's just a few examples.
Are we willing to wait?
And this was touched on earlier in our program,
willing to wait with the right attitude
for any theocratic appointment or privilege of service.
Here's another example.
Are we willing to wait uncomplaningly on Jehovah
to correct in his way, his time any injustice
that we perceive in the congregation?
Or what about this?
Are we willing to wait patiently,
and this could apply to some of the single ones?
Are you willing to wait patiently on Jehovah
to provide you a suitable marriage mate,
even if you have to wait to the new world?
Yes, like Peter, let's have a waiting attitude.
Now, here's another positive lesson for Peter.
In order to make progress spiritually,
he was willing to move out of his comfort zones.
Now, let's get some examples.
When invited, he promptly left a life of pursuing material
things for a life of storing up treasure in heaven.
And apparently he was an older man when he did this.
But he did not put financial security ahead
of following the Christ.
Or here's another example.
He went from being an unlettered ordinary fisherman,
probably talking primarily to hard men and fish merchants
to be hang a bold witness
of an unpopular message before thousands.
One more example.
He went from being very prejudice against Samaritans
and Gentiles to truly loving his Samaritan and Gentile brothers.
Well, what's the lesson for us?
Are we willing to move out of our comfort zones
in order to make spiritual progress?
Now, all of you, you know where your comfort zones are.
But are you willing to move out
in order to make spiritual progress?
What about in some cases,
especially if you're given an assignment,
willing to go where the need is greater?
Where Jehovah wants you to go?
Or what about reaching out for various forms of the ministry
that you may not right now feel so comfortable with?
Maybe public witnessing or working business territory?
What about being more courageous and informal witnessing?
Even though you may be a quiet and shy type person.
Well, let's get another positive lesson from Peter.
He allowed discipline to mold rather than stumble him.
Of all the apostles, he was the most outspoken, wasn't he?
Well, that was matched by his being
the most frequently corrected.
Reproved, rebuked.
But beautifully, he didn't quit.
He never gave up, did he?
For example, we touched on before
when Jesus said, get behind me, Satan.
We don't read that he pouted for weeks or months
because of that strong correction.
In fact, the Bible indicates six days later.
Jesus took Peter, James and John up into a mountain
to experience the transfiguration.
Or what about after Peter denied Jesus?
The Bible tells us Jesus looks straight at Peter
in effect indirect discipline.
Peter recall what Jesus said.
He went outside and he wept bitterly.
But yet you don't read it, he kept beating himself.
He kept being depressed over a serious sin
of denying Jesus.
He knew Joseph and Jesus had forgiven him.
So he put it behind him, didn't he?
And he moved ahead.
Well, the lesson for us, Jehovah disciplines, those he lost.
But don't ever let that discipline harden or imbiter you.
Let it soften you into a better person.
If we've committed sins in the past,
even serious sins like Peter,
let's put them behind us and move ahead.
Well, one more positive lesson we're gonna talk about
from Peter.
He gained and then he maintained true humility.
Now it's true, he had to really work hard to gain it, didn't he?
He had to work at it because he and the other apostles
had been taught from infancy to strive to be the greatest.
Seek prominence, see it was really indoctrinated
into their minds and heart, see and up until the very last night
of Jesus' life on the earth.
Peter still had a problem, didn't he?
And the other apostles too, he had a problem.
Jesus was washing the feet.
John chapter 13, Peter had not volunteered to do this,
even after Jesus started washing the feet.
You ever thought about that?
Sometimes you don't think of something.
Someone else starts doing it and you think,
oh, well, let me help you with that.
Did Peter say, oh, Lord, I see you're washing these feet here.
Let me help you.
Let me catch a couple of feet for you.
No, he, or none of the apostles, see volunteer,
they still had a problem at this point.
But would Jehovah's help?
An effort on his part in time,
he truly developed true humility.
He went from that one striving to be the greatest
to the humbled man who lifted up Cornelius
when Cornelius tried to bow down to him.
Remember that accountant, Acts chapter 10,
Peter lifted him up saying, rise,
I too am just a man.
Or what about his genuine humility
when the apostle Paul corrected him publicly
in front of the whole congregation?
Now if he would have still had pride,
well, who you, Paul, to give me correction?
I've been in the truth a lot longer than you have.
When you were persecuting the Christians,
I was an apostle.
And furthermore, you could have at least talked to me privately,
not in front of the whole congregation.
But no, he knew he was clearly wrong.
He deserved the counsel, no matter how it was given,
he made the correction, and he harbored no grudge.
And the indication is very powerful
that he remained humble despite his many privileges.
Looking back over his life,
he had had many, many privileges.
In that true, he walked on water, at least for a few minutes.
He saw Jesus transfigured.
He performed many miracles,
including personally resurrecting Dorcas.
He received and used the keys to the kingdom.
He helped many people into the truth.
But yet he remained truly humble
and could write with freeness of speech.
In his inspired letter,
first Peter chapter five and verse five,
these beautiful words that we read very often,
he said, but all of you,
clothe yourselves with humility toward one another
because God opposes the haunting ones,
but he gives undeserved kindness to the humble ones.
And where is Peter right now?
An immortal spirit serving as one of the 12 foundation stones
of the Messianic kingdom.
So what is the lesson for us?
We must gain true humility, like Peter did.
Otherwise, if you think about it,
we're absolutely unusable by Jehovah.
And then we must remain humble,
no matter what privileges we may or may not receive.
And then Jehovah will never oppose it.
Rather, we will continue to receive undeserved kindness from him.
Well, our discussion is highlighted just a few
of the many lessons to be learned from Peter.
I'm sure a few Gilead students soon to be graduates,
make Peter a study project.
You could learn many, many more valuable lessons.
And of course, that's true of many other Bible characters.
But unquestionably, there is so much to learn
from the faithful, colorful human apostle Peter.
So now we come to the point where we're going to make
the presentation of the diplomas
and brother Ronald Cousin is with me here.
Let's start please brother Ronald.
Okay, so first of all, we have brother Abraham
will be returning toEthiopia.
Brother and Sister Abbas will be returning to the Middle East.
Sister Blodorn will be returning to Timor Le妳st He.
Brother and Sister Boenfeld will be returning to Greenland.
Brother Dugaw will be returning to Canada.
Brother Ikra will be returning to Côte d'Vois.
Brother and Sister Ephraim will be returning toEtheopia.
Brother and Sister Far will be serving in Malta.
Brother and sister Gaurams will be returning to Ethiopia.
Brother Kaliila will be serving in Asia.
Brother Kiskovsky will be serving in India.
Brother Koroi Nagasia will be returning to Fiji.
Brother and sister Kristiadi will be returning to Indonesia.
Brother and sister Let will be serving in Trinidad and Tobago.
Sister Mingfel will be returning to Yap.
Brother Miatt will be returning to Myanmar.
Brother and sister Naidu will be returning to Angola.
Brother Nizombe will be returning to Malawi.
Brother and sister Nizagayo will be returning to Rwanda.
Brother Ovaya will be returning to Chile.
Brother and sister Pakinines will be returning to Venezuela.
Brother and sister Petrov will be returning to Croatia.
Brother and sister Razif and Salama will be returning to Madagascar.
Brother and sister Rian Kiddikul will be returning to Thailand.
Brother and sister of Robert will be serving in Turkey.
Brother and sister Schultz will be returning to Germany.
Sister Shabra will be returning to Ghana.
Brother Sersich will be returning to Croatia.
Brother Stevens will be returning to Asia.
Brother and sister Valmenos will be serving in France.
And Brother Yambao will be serving in India.
And lastly, Brother and sister Yulee Huttala will be returning to Finland.
Well, thank you very much, Brother Kursin.
You did very well with those names.
Although you didn't have me worried, I thought we were sending brother let somewhere else.
But anyway, I got over the shock.
Well, we'd like to introduce to you now the graduates of the 145th class of Gilead.
So at this point, we're going to have a class letter read to us by brother Krish Nadyo.
It's amazing, are you?
Your friends can take your breath away.
September 8th, 2018.
To the governing body and the Bethel family.
Dear brothers, five months ago, we arrived with excitement from the four corners of the earth.
We anxiously waited to be molded into the people
that our father Johova knew we could become.
Despite denied visas, health issues and insecurities,
we were prepared to be taught by our grand instructor.
Even after enrollment, further challenges presented themselves.
As a class, we fought measles, endured quarantine,
survived tornadoes, nursed broken bones,
and comforted each other in the face of the reedment.
However, these hurdles did not hamper us.
They drew us closer together as siblings and to our father, Johova.
Isaiah gives us a glimpse into a heavenly school
when he described the training Jesus was then receiving from Johova
to prepare him for his earthly assignment.
Isaiah 50 and verse 4 describes Jesus' special education saying,
He awakens me morning by morning.
He awakens my ear to listen like the taught ones.
Jesus knew very well the purpose of his training
so that he may know how to answer the tired one with the right word.
Out of deep love and appreciation,
he became the perfect reflection of his father.
We too know very well the purpose of the loving training
we have received here at Gilead.
To answer the tired one, not out of our own thoughts,
but with the words taught to us through God's word.
Many in the brotherhood are like smoldering,
like a smoldering wick, and at times feel crushed in spirit.
Jesus loved and cared for such ones.
We are determined to reflect the love Jesus developed
through his schooling and bring true comfort and refreshment
to our brothers.
Words fail to express the depth of our gratitude
for all that has been done for us.
The Bethel family welcomed us into their home
and showed hospitality to a degree that we never imagined.
Our dear instructors became like fathers,
teaching us with grace and dignity.
They showed us how to honor one another through their example.
They took the time to comfort us in the face of trials.
The winsome words we received through the curriculum
were soothing oil on our souls,
healing and strengthening us for the days ahead.
For this, we wish to deeply thank our instructors
as well as you dear brothers on the governing body.
It is now clearer than ever to us
that Jehovah is using you mightily
in fulfilling your waiting assignment
of overseeing the preaching work.
Above all, we must thank our father, Jehovah,
from the bottom of our hearts for this precious
and unforgettable gift.
Jehovah truly has given us more than super abundantly
beyond all the things we ask.
At the end of this life defining experience,
we know our molding is far from complete.
Our learning will continue.
Our gratitude compels us to do our utmost
to support you in all that we do.
Our hearts overflow with excitement
to work harder than ever before.
May Jehovah continue to reachly bless
the marvelous provision of Gilead
to the benefit of the worldwide brotherhood
and the praise and honor of our most wonderful God, Jehovah.
Your brothers and sisters, the 145th Class of Gilead.
Well, this is my opportunity to say
just a few final words to you.
There have been so many wonderful points mentioned
on our program today.
You remember how we started with our discussion
about the need to always bring glory to Jehovah
and not to be concerned about our own glory.
You remember we started off by mentioning
that maybe it could be tempting
to accept glory from others if they praise us.
But then on the other hand,
if we get criticized that may also be tempting for us
to try and justify ourselves
and inadvertently bring glory to ourselves.
But there is another way too
that we may have to be careful
about not bringing glory to ourselves.
And we can see this from the example of the Apostle Paul.
Now, I know you didn't bring your bibles up,
well, you have to do as listen.
It's one scripture, 1 Corinthians chapter two.
1 Corinthians two, one and two.
And it's a vital lesson that we learned from the Apostle Paul.
He was speaking about when he went to Corinth.
And as we realized, Corinth was a seat of learning,
the Greeks loved learning.
And what did he say?
In verses one and two.
So when I came to you, brothers,
I did not come with extravagant speech
or wisdom declaring the sacred secret of God to you.
So Paul didn't use extravagant speech to impress people.
He says in verse two,
for I decided, yes, he made a decision.
What was it?
I decided not to know anything among you
except Jesus Christ.
And then if we look at verse five,
he says, so that your faith may be not in men's wisdom,
but in God's power.
What a wonderful example Paul said
with regard to not drawing attention
to his own wisdom and ability.
Even though some in Corinth, because of this,
felt he wasn't a very good speaker.
When we look at how Paul defended the good news
before audience is large and small,
he certainly was a very, very good author.
He had that ability,
but he decided to tone it down
because he knew the brothers there had a weakness.
Now what weaknesses were prevalent at that time?
Well, among the Jewish people
and there were some Jewish people there in Corinth as well,
they loved to quote great rabbis and scholars.
And of course, the Greeks loved to quote the philosophers.
So what lesson do you think we learn from this?
Well, as you go to your assignments,
perhaps you might be tempted to say,
oh, the instructor or a governing body member said this.
But why should we follow the example of the apostle Paul?
Well, you see, if we have something worthwhile
to convey to the brothers and sisters,
find that in God's word.
As you've been searching, look in the library,
watch our library, find something there,
but don't rely upon the rabbis,
the gurus, to show that you have some inside knowledge
that cannot be verified by other mere mortals,
rather rely upon God's word.
Yes, rely on His word and the publications
that we have through His organization.
And then that way you can be sure
you will bring glory to Jehovah and not to yourselves.